Last thing is literally, congrats.
You've made it this far.
This was a hard course.
This was a hard course to make.
So thanks for sticking with me.
I hope you all learned whatever
you needed to learn to get
your next JS apps out to the world so
people can use it.
I would say, after knowing all of this
stuff, you pretty much know everything
you need to know to actually have
a production ready, Next.js app.
The only thing I would say is
probably they're like testing, and
I was gonna cover testing,
but I just felt like
there was nothing unique about testing
to Next.js that wasn't really React.
So I kinda felt like it
just wasn't unique enough.
So I would say maybe brush
up on some testing there.
Other than that, you know everything.
I mean, a lot of people don't even
know what the preview feature.
Y'all know how to make previews now,
so you're good.
Last thing I wanna talk about here is just
some cool stuff that I was mentioning
throughout the project.
I talked about SWR.
SWR I think it stands for
stale-while revalidate,
I think that's what it stands for,
yeah, [LAUGH] that's right there.
It's a cache invalidation
strategy popularized by this RFC.
If you fancy those docs, go look at it.
But basically, the Vercel team made
this as well I'm pretty sure, and
it's a hook that allows you to, it does so
much for you in such a small package.
But basically, it's meant for
client side data fetching.
So in this case, this person is
making a API call to /api/user.
But this right here has nothing
to do with the API call.
This is actually just a key to the cache.
And it's smart to just use
the route that you're going to.
So basically what's gonna happen is
SWR is gonna execute this function,
get the result of it, and
store it in the cache at this key.
And then anywhere else in your
app if you want to access.
If you have this again, anywhere else in
your app, it'll check the cache first, and
it'll get it and you can change the
policies on how you want that to behave.
You can say I want it to always go
to cash, or go to cache first, and
then go to the network,
different things like that.
It also does that thing where you can
focus and not focus on the window.
So if I click away and come back,
let me get it, again, it syncs tabs.
So if you have the same app
opened up in multiple tabs,
it'll sync them all together.
So if one person makes a change here, for
instance, if this query gets updated on
one tab of your app, it's gonna get
updated on all the tabs of your app.
Which is pretty crazy,
really, really insane.
So SWR, a really nice tool.
Another one is react query which is
pretty much the same thing as SWR
just a different flavor, but
it tries to accomplish the same thing.
I have more experience with react query.
But I know SWR is also really legit, but
they both kind of do the same thing.
So yeah, highly recommend taking
a look at both of these for
your client side data fetching needs,
also mutations as well.
React remix, this is something
that's kinda like Next.js, I think,
but I haven't used it yet.
I'm probably just gonna reach out to
Michael Jackson in them to see if I
can actually get a hold of it.
I think I can see dots that he uses, so I
might hit him up and see what he's saying.
But yeah, this is basically,
I looked at the docs a little bit,
I heard a little bit about it.
But it costs money that's
why I haven't used it.
But I mean, they deserve it.
This is seems like an amazing
piece of technology.
Just from reading it, it kinda seems like
a Next.js approach to building frameworks,
but I think they do some
stuff on the edge too.
So it's like a service and
a framework put together.
But it's just nice to see what Next.js
did is sparking like a new wave of, wow,
we actually need full stack apps.
We need full stack apps.
Static, I personally
think static is dying.
I would never reach for
a static site generator today.
I wouldn't do it.
Because it's very,very limiting.
I don't know why I would
only build static today,
when I could do something like this or
in Next.js.
So that's just me.
Yeah, this is some project.
So hey, if you get access to this,
let me know on Twitter how you like it,
I'm very curious about that.
I just put it there cuz why not?
Obviously I'm gonna talk about my
product type, it's a headless CMS.
Sign up for access, I will put
you on top of the list, you could
pretty much use it literally today if you
sign up for it, just hit me up on Twitter,
let me know you signed up in your
email and I'll give you access to it.
It only works with Next.js right now.
So we've worked very closely
with the Next.js team and
Vercel to make a really tight integration.
So hopefully It turns out [LAUGH] good.
So yeah,
let me know if you wanna check that out.
And another CMS that I respect and
I think is really legit, is Sanity.
I really like these guys.
The team behind this is
doing a really good job.
So yeah, check them out.
I would say If I wasn't using Type, Sanity
would be the CMS that I would use for
my projects.
So yeah, check them out,
really nice project here.
Every other CMS is pretty good,
but I think Sanity's the only one
that's kinda got it figured out.
Other than that, that's all I got.
What I recommend for further learning
towards Next.js, so typically what
I like to do when I wanna really get
comfortable with a framework, Is you have
to set like a goal that's just slightly
out of your reach to accomplish, right?
You can't be like,
I just wanna learn something.
And that's your objective.
Your objective should be
to like build something,
it should be some output
that can be measured.
And the thing that you're trying to build
should be slightly out of your comfort
zone, okay?
Like it shouldn't be so far out of your
comfort zone that you give up on it.
But it should be enough to where it's
gonna require you to research, and
it's gonna require you to think.
So I would say, think of an app that's
slightly out of your comfort zone,
something you haven't tried,
something that you wanns try, and
build that with next.js.
And then increase the difficulty and
build it again, you do that three times,
you're gonna feel pretty
comfortable with any technology.
And that's pretty much kind of how I like
to do things when learning, to set that
goal slightly outside of your region,
and then go for it, see what happens.
Eventually you'll learn that technology,
because there's one thing to know like how
something works and
then how to use something.
I think what's really important is
really knowing how to use something.
If that's all you ever did,
I think you'd go really far.
And then when it comes down to
learning how something works,
I think that pays off.
That's what I call likes
it's a quiet superpower.
It doesn't really, no one actually sees
that power that you actually know how
something works cuz you don't really
get to show it off that much.
But it does pay off because all of
a sudden, you seem to fix things that
people can't fix or
you move slightly faster than people.
But they know how to use the technology as
well, they just don't know how it works.
So as long as everything's going smooth,
they're doing pretty good as well.
So I will say probably focus on just
getting really good at using something,
and then if you wanna go back
to understand how it works,
do that much later.
Do not get stuck on how something
works before you use it.
None of us had to learn how a car
work before we got our license.
You got your license and you drove, and
you probably still don't
know how an engine works.
And that's meant by design.
[LAUGH] It's totally fine.
So learn to use this framework, learn to
be good at it, learn to be productive.
If that's boring to use, you're so good.
Then go back and see how it works.
Go look at the source code, you'll
have way much more context to actually
understand it at that point anyway.
Ask some questions, reach out to the
Vercel team, reach out to the Next team,
ask them how they did it.
They'll show you, but
you kinda wanna be ready for that.
So have the context,
know how to use the framework, and
that will take you very far.
And with that, that's all I got.
So I wanna thank you all for
coming to the course.
I hope you got a lot from it.
And I will see y'all on the next one.
Feel free to reach,
I try to respond to every single
person that hits me up on Twitter.
I literally will hop on and
pair with people.
I do that a lot.
I'll just hop on a pair of people
help them out with random stuff.
Like I had someone mix me up with someone
else, and they thought I was someone else,
and I still hopped on a pair of with them,
to see if I can help him get past some
bugs in a language that I don't know.
And we did not get past it, but I tried.
So if I have time, I'll do it.
So just hit me up if there's something
you need if I didn't get across today or
if the question comes up later, I'm here.
I try to respond as much as I can.
And I just like doing that stuff.
Well, all right, like I said,
I am open and willing to answer anything.
Just hit me up, and
again thanks for coming.